So in the spirit of looking at irregularities in Spanish and how to deal with them and how to identify them, I wanted to spend a little bit of time speaking about making your own rules.
We've taught you a great amount of Spanish for you to be very conversational and reach fluency just through practice and listening in a very short amount of time if you get practicing.
But we haven't looked at every single piece of content of Spanish, of course.
But the content that we've looked at has taken from every area
of the language in an analytical way which will allow you to make your own rules when you come across things that you don't quite understand whilst you're practicing and exposing yourself
to Spanish.
So I just want to experiment a little bit in regards to that with you now.
So I will present you with some imaginary situations.
where you see the language behaving in certain ways and I want you to make your own rule.
Now it doesn't mean it's necessarily your own, somebody else might have come up with it before, but that you will figure out for yourself what is going on.
So for example, the word for two as in T-O-O is demasiado, demasiado
Demasiado.
It's a bit of a long word, but if you break it up, it's easier to digest.
You have the mass of more
Yado and this is two TOO is in too many.
Actually, Damas can be used by itself if you say tengo quattro de mas
I have four of more, tengo quadro de mass it means I have four too many.
I have four spare, I have four extra
So demasiado means to.
Now imagine you hear these following sentences, and I want you to work out what's happening here, why this word is behaving differently in different circumstances.
So you might hear demasiadas casas.
You might hear demasiado coaches.
And you might hear demasiado aggressivo.
Demasiado aggressiva and demasiado aggressivos.
Again, you might hear Demasiadas casas
Demasiado coches.
Here it's changing from the base form demasiado.
Demasiado casas.
Demasiado coches.
And then here it's not.
Demasiado aggressivo, demasiado agresiva, demasiado agresivos.
So why in one situation is it changing and why in the other situation is it not?
The only difference I see is that um it's related to nouns in the first two examples and in the second two it's related to something descriptive adjective.
Espectacular.
Well done.
Brilliant.
That's it.
We said that identifying what type of word we have
Will mostly be all we need to do to figure out what's going on.
So we understand from this that when demasiado goes with a noun, it will change to match it
Demasiadas casas, demasiado coches.
But when it goes with an adjective, it won't.
Demasiado aggressivo, demasiado aggressiva, demasiado aggressivos, demasiado aggressivas, it's not changing.
So we didn't learn that here, but we've been analytical enough of the language for you to figure that out by yourself.
So another example for you to figure out what's going on.
Now the words ala wing and aula or classroom
are all feminine words.
But we say El-Ala, the wing, El Awa, the water, and El-Aula, the classroom.
What's going on?
Is it because the first letter of those words is A?
And it would be weird to say um la a la.
You have other words.
that begin with A where you have la at the beginning for example la alfombra the carpet
La almuada, the pillow.
So you need to find something that's different between La Al Muhada and La Alfombra to El Awa El Allah El Aula
Well the difference in this case is that it's just two just two syllables, perhaps?
That's it.
They are two syllables and they begin and end in A
So it's a very specific thing.
It's not something that we're really going to spend time on learning here in this course, because it's uh very likely as well that you forget it.
So what we have done throughout this course
He's giving you the analytical skills to work it out by yourself and the confidence to make your own rules.
So that's the rule.
They're all feminine words.
But they take L because they are two syllables and they begin and end with A.
And we know that they are feminine because we say el awafria.
the cold water, fria not frio.
So we know they're actually feminine even though they're taking L.
One more exercise like this.
The word for one is uno
The word for some is alguno and the word for none is ninguno.
So we have uno, alguno, ninguno.
One, some, none.
So if I tell you how many do you want, you will reply to me uno.
Or if you don't want any, ninguno.
But if I say one man, how do I say one man or a man?
Un hombre.
And if I say some man, I say algun hombre.
And if I say no man, I say ningun hombre.
So we have uno, alguno, and ninguno.
No quiero ninguno, quiero uno, quiero alguno.
But if I say I want one car, for example.
Quiero un coche.
Quiero algun coche.
No quiero ningun coche.
So what's happening there?
Why does uno become un and why does alguno become algun?
Because a noun is following?
Yes, because we have a noun following it and it loses that last o.
So uno alguna ninguna become un algun ningun.
And you would notice that it doesn't happen with the feminine.
So we have una mujer, a woman, alguna mujer, some woman, ninguna mujer, no woman.
So the point is just this that we need to analyze
The language that we are coming across, trying to pick out anything that we don't understand to tackle it.
So that we control it and we understand what's happening so that that element of the language doesn't control us.
Very quickly, thinking in this way
You will get over your technical problems in the language.
You will solve your technical problems.
And then when you solve your technical problems in a specific language, then you can start to live
freely in that language and become somebody else in that language that is also you but somebody else because you are using this mechanism or this tool which
as we've said a few times permits and obliges you to perceive and express the world in a certain way.
But before we can fully take advantage of that, we want to get over our technical difficulties.
And this is achieved not through memorizing what is correct, but analyzing and understanding what is correct and finding why.